To get some of this sculpting detail on the hair we can use blenders sculpting tools of course.
And also I think there's a little bit of fine detail micro detail on here too that maybe we could add
that as well.
So first of all I think what we're gonna need to do is split the hair out as its own object because
I don't want to sculpt on this model here.
This is my final one so I'm going to duplicate the hair do the sculpting on the duplicate then bake
a normal map.
Then we can apply that normal map back to our main character here.
So let's go over to the layout tab and for this I think we just need to select the hair so I'll tab
into edit mode and then let's press the L key to select just the hair.
Now what let's do is let's duplicate this with shift D and I'll hit enter and then we want to split
this duplicate mesh out from this object.
So it's its own object so we'll press the p key and then we can separate by selection.
There we go.
So now it's its own object.
Let's come over here and give it a name.
Let's call it Hair sculpt.
Let's do that and now if I take this object and drag it into that main scene collection we can pull
it out of the character scene collection.
And that allows me to hide the character and just have the hair sculpt object here.
All right.
So now that we've got this this is what we're actually going to do the sculpting on let's go over to
the sculpting tab and let's begin working on this.
Now once again I'm going to switch over to my graphics tablet and here in sculpting mode if you want
to zoom in and frame up a particular object you can hover over it and then press the period key on the
NUM pad and that will frame it up.
So the tumble is centered at that point.
So for this particular object I'm going to use the multi resolution modifier.
I think it's really easy to generate pretty good looking scope detail and then bake a normal map out
without having to read it apologize.
It's pretty handy.
So I'm going to come over here to the modifiers panel and click Add modifier and choose multi resolution
I will hit the subdivide button several times maybe may be up to sculpt four and then I'll also increase
the preview up to four as well.
Now that we've done that we can do a few tests here to see how our sculpt tools work.
If I click and drag here you can see I've added a sculpt stroke but it's also on the other side and
I don't think I want that.
This particular sculpt detail isn't going to be symmetrical so I'm going to come over here and turn
off symmetry that first let me press control Z and I'll bring down the symmetry menu and turn off the
X mirror there.
Okay so now if I click and drag that's what we get.
Okay.
That's good.
Just like in the texturing view we can hit the f key and reduce the size of the brush.
Also we have a lot more tools over here and it's sometimes kind of hard to know what they are.
So I'm going to hover over here and click and drag and pull this out so we can actually see the names
of the tools here.
Mainly we're just going to be using the draw and the smooth tool.
Also I think I need that reference image over here again.
So I'll just create a new window here and let's bring in an image editor and let's find that image.
There it is.
So this is kind of what I want to do.
So let's do a few more test scopes here I think I want to cut in right like that for the part in the
hair and the way you cut in as you hold the control key and drag and that then creates kind of a cut
in or pushed in stroke so let me come over here and be I'll make this a little bit bigger and I'll hold
control and click and drag and let's see how that works.
Now it's a little bit too big.
Let me reduce that a smidge and let's try that again.
See how that worked.
That's not bad.
I kind of feel like it needs to be a little bit deeper or more angled cut.
So let's come over here to our fall off again and let me try this one right here where we have more
of a steep angle on the stroke once again press control and kind of move that back.
Yeah I think that's a little bit better.
So let me try again.
No I think I wanted to come back more horizontal so let me try this again.
That's not bad.
Yeah I think I like that.
All right.
There are these tiny artifacts back here but we'll go through this after we do our strokes and we'll
bring in the smooth brush and see what we can do to clean that up.
So I think I just want one two maybe three more strokes here.
Let's try this press control and I might go this way.
No not quite.
It's kind of it's gonna take me a few times here.
It always does and you know what I could do is I could bring in or I could turn on this smooth stroke
again.
Let's try this and if I press control and click and drag you can see there's this stroke.
See how that worked.
That's not bad.
Well I kind of want this to come up a little more so let's do it one more time.
Like this round like that.
Yeah that's a little bit more I like these parallel here.
OK.
It looks like there's one way down here in the front.
Let's try and get that one in there.
That.
Yeah.
OK.
That looks pretty good.
And then there's one way up here on top.
Let's try and get one up here.
I'm just going to hold that control key click and drag and then drag out here.
Now that's a little bit too close.
Let me get it up a little higher on the head here like this.
See how that works.
All right.
Let's see if we can now smooth these back a bit so they don't have the artifacts and rough edges here
at the end.
So let's go over to the smooth tool.
I'm going to hit the f key and make this a little bit bigger.
Let's take this strength down a bit so we don't smooth the way all of our strokes and I'll just come
in here and kind of they can drag and smooth this up just a bit.
Blend these in just a little bit more like this
Yeah just bring them back a little bit so they aren't quite as harsh so they aren't quite as prominent.
All right.
Maybe even take this down a little bit more smooth this back some like that all right.
Let's give this a try.
I kind of you'll like this might work.
Now that we've smoothed those back let's add that micro detail I was talking about.
Let's come back to the draw brush here and let's add a new texture so if I come up here I can click
on texture and add new right here.
Now that we have that new texture we can come over to our texture tab down here and here it is.
So if we change our type from image or movie to noise now we're gonna be painting or sculpting this
noise pattern.
So if I come over here and click and drag you can see we get this kind of kind of a micro detail there
which is kind of nice.
Now let me undo this and let's turn off that smooth stroke.
Also let's reduce this drink of quite a bit and I will increase the size of the brush.
You can kind of see the detail here as I change the size of the brush there.
All right.
So let's do this let's just very lightly lay down this detail on just barely click and drag and just
lay down some of this detail I'm just going to kind of do it in line with the current strokes here like
this.
Let's just see if we can add some of this all around.
So it gives it a little bit of a feeling like it's you know textured plastic or something like that.
Let's do that.
All right then I'll tumble around and get this area down underneath here as well along the rim of the
hair right down in here of that.
Let's see how it works all right.
So what I'd like to do now is bake out this high resolution information to a normal map and then we
can apply the normal map to the material of the character because if I were to break out all of this
detail here let me hit the Zeek and go to wireframe you can see that we've got a huge amount of polygons
being used for this.
We can't keep all of these polygons for a game character.
We're going to need to bake the scoped information out to a normal map.
So in the next video let's go ahead and work on that.